[THEME MUSIC]
>> Our brains are
overworked and overtired.
We spend all day working.
And with technology
at our fingertips,
we never give our brains a break
from directed intense focus.
This can lead to
attention fatigue.
And it may be damaging your
mental and physical health,
but there may be
an easy solution
right outside your door.
This is "Gaia News."
When it comes to
our brains, there
are different
types of attention.
Remember the last time you
concentrated on a singular
task, like taking
a test or working
on a complicated project?
After a certain amount of time
in that highly concentrated
state, people often
describe themselves as brain
tired or even, brain dead.
Our minds are like muscles.
They can get overworked
when concentrating too long.
That can lead to stress, weight
gain, burnout, and anxiety.
The good news is our brains
can disconnect and recharge.
Dr. Ilene Naomi Rusk is a
neurobehavioral consultant
and co-director of
the Healthy Brain
Program in Boulder, Colorado.
>> There are a number of ways
our brains get over-focused,
and tired, and fatigued.
We actually can focus
on screens for too long.
We can focus on
television for too long.
With the advent of smartphones,
televisions, and these screens
we look at, we
don't have a break.
Our brains don't have a break.
Our attentional systems
don't really have a break.
This is particularly relevant
now because most of the world,
at some point in the
last year and a half,
has been quarantined.
And that quarantine has actually
occurred due to a threat
response that we have
all felt. The attention,
at least in the last
year and a half,
has particularly been focused
with fear in our surroundings.
>> There are different types
of attention depending on what
task we are trying
to accomplish.
Our brains know
which one to use.
>> We have directed
attention at one thing,
which is when you concentrate
for a long period of time
on a task, like learning piano.
We have divided
attention when we're
looking at a couple of
things at the same time.
Executive attention, we're
focusing on something
and we're saying this is
really a priority for me.
So each of those have
different brain regions
that are responsible
for mediating
that type of attention.
The frontal regions are
involved and preparing us
for choosing what to look
at and how to respond.
>> But our ever-present
screens, smartphones,
and computers
overload our brains,
acting as false stimuli.
>> When brains focus on
one particular screen,
it can be very overwhelming
and fatiguing for our brain.
We're finding this in
the scientific literature
with children, with teens, and
certainly with adults, as well.
We all know, like, the
level of addictive quality
that our smartphones have.
So it's not healthy.
And I think the
most important thing
we lose when we do this
hyper-focusing is that we're
always looking to figure
something out that's
in a very narrow window.
We're very not
expansive with using
the rest of our neural network.
>> How do we disconnect
and recharge our brains?
Experts say you can
switch your brain
from hyper-focused attention
to relaxed attention using
attention restoration theory.
Which, put simply, is
to spend time in nature.
>> I observe that
when we're in nature,
we still have attention, but
our attention is more diffuse,
more calm.
And I know that
the literature is
showing that our physiology
actually changes.
So it benefits
the immune system.
It benefits brain regions that
are stress-reducing systems
in the brain.
That if we have time in nature
and we have the opportunity
to do what the Japanese
call forest bathing--
they actually call
it shinrin-yoku--
when we have that
type of stimulation,
we know that that's very healthy
for our bodies and our brains.
>> There's also a connection
to a major mental problem
affecting children and adults.
>> I was really fascinated to
learn that this problem with
overactive sustained attention,
focused attention where
the brain actually gets really
exhausted can look a lot like
attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder.
Kids with ADHD, adults with
ADHD, adolescents with ADHD
do really, much better
in nature, as well.
Yes.
Some people call it attention
restoration therapy or theory.
I call it the great
connection with nature.
That's daily, if you can,
or as often as you can.
>> We don't yet know how or
why nature seems to rewire
our bodies and brains.
But Dr. Rusk and
other researchers
recommend it as a way to
fix our attention fatigue.
Even sounds of nature can
be beneficial, as well
as meditation, specifically
open awareness meditation.
Whatever you do, remember
to unplug and go outside.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."